Dear viewers, dear readers of Večernji
list and viewers of this form of ours, we
have an extraordinary show, namely the
first time that politics is
being filmed outside the studio.
This is because we are in Medjugorje and
not with just anyone, but with one of the
six Medjugorje visionaries,
Ivan Dragičević.
Ivana, Jesus and Mary are praised.
Welcome.
Thank you for your time.
Thank you too, for allowing me to
be your guest and God's blessing.
Let's go, we are actually in the novena,
or rather on the eve of the 45th
anniversary of the Medjugorje phenomenon.
That's why we met.
Here's what's happening
in Medjugorje these days.
Come on, tell me a little bit about it
for people who can't come to Medjugorje.
What's the atmosphere like
in Medjugorje these days?
Let's start with that.
So you, as you can see for yourself?
You are present here, there is an
intensive program, there
is a lot of prayer.
A lot.
The trip to the apparition hill
where as a parish at four o'clock.
Here are the prayers in my chapel Mary
goes from the called
Lady to the hill Mary.
That's how she goes to
the hill and 11 o'clock.
So people are really us wherever you go.
People are in prayer, walking, praying.
I would say, it is a special moment for
all of us and for people who
come to Medjugorje often.
This is for N1 a moment where we, where we
all go back to the beginning and to renew
what Our Lady calls us to and where
she leads us, and leads us to Jesus.
Yes, it really is, you can
feel a spiritual charge.
Especially hot, very hot and I would like
to go back 45 years in
these warm, hot June days.
It was also hot, wasn't it?
When Our Lady appeared, how was it and
here is what you can
remember from June 24, 1981.
We will never be able to
get out of my memories.
And now as I stand, I sit with you.
Emotions are present there.
Every day that approaches that day.
24.
And I personally, reviewing my archives,
records through these days
that I wrote down carefully?
Simply, that's me.
That's so much joy.
That comes to the heart.
It's a grace that is indescribably
difficult to put into words.
That gift that God gave me, how
can I thank you for all of it.
I was a child at the time, 81 years old, I
was 16 years old, I was the oldest of the
children in the family, I have two even
younger brothers, a mother and a father.
At that time.
We worked hard as during communism,
helping our parents to complete school so
that they could have some means of living,
we herded sheep, herded
cattle, picked sage.
And most of all about tobacco.
Even though I was the oldest in the
family, I always had to be the first to
show the younger ones
that they had to sit.
And every day in that hard work,
getting up at five in the morning.
Mother calls, and we have
to finish with the spirit.
Before the sun came up, the tobacco
was harvested in the summer.
And so every day you go to pick tobacco
and you come home seemingly lower.
That tobacco raises it
on the pile, dries it.
And every day in that hard work as a child
I always asked my mother if
it was some feast day of St.
Anastasia.
And I knew when the saint comes or
I couldn't sleep a little longer.
Well, that day came Wednesday, 2.
4.6. 1981.
The feast day of St.
John the Baptist.
That morning I slept on
my mother's neck too.
Does my mother come to my room in Buda
five or six times and that I have to get
up as soon as possible to get
ready because we're already late?
And you know how children are at that
time, when you don't have
to go to the field yet.
I liked to sleep a little longer.
And there wasn't much thinking, I come two
or three times, at that time
there weren't many changes.
To have a nice mass.
What are you going to do
at mass, another work day?
Soon you go to your room as if you
woke up your two younger brothers.
And your mother is waiting on the
macadam road in front of the house.
And we quickly go to mass at 11 a.
m.
I remember it as clearly
as if it were today.
I was at mass, I'm not sure about the
body, but I was there
with my heart and soul.
When the children wake up,
they're sleepy, nothing.
Some pushing doesn't work.
I was at mass.
I was just waiting for it
to end as soon as possible.
And when I thought it
would end, we came home.
My mother's custom was for her
father to ask us something like this.
How many people were present
at the mass we attended?
How many of us listened to the Gospel and
my mother asked me Ivane
in which Gospel today was.
I didn't know.
But my mother, like every mother, knows
how to draw attention to what is said.
You have to listen to the priest,
you have to listen to the sermon.
Mass and you always go to mass to
listen to the priest and after that.
It was always a tradition for us to
stay together for lunch, a family lunch.
Sarma.
That day.
We ate meat baked under the peka when it
was yesterday and before
the end of that lunch.
Three friends from the village
with whom I went to school come.
They come in front of my parents'
house and call, they say to me.
They call me by name Ivane, come
with us, There are not enough of us.
Let's go play football,
and it's not our custom.
It's always a holiday somewhere in the
meadow, and right across the road, the
buses stop here under the
apparition hill in the meadow.
There was a time when Jakov was my mother
and we always gathered there
on Sundays and holidays.
We were playing soccer.
I didn't need to be told twice.
I got up.
I immediately went with him and the
dirt road that was there before.
And we came to that meadow around
three and a half in the afternoon.
We played soccer until about 5 o'clock.
Maybe a little before we finished.
And when we finished soccer, we left that
meadow and went up to this road
that goes up towards Cenacolo.
That road was a dirt road.
An asphalt road that essentially goes
through Bijakovići and
where you go up the hill.
All of that used to be macadam field
roads where cows, sheep, goats used to go.
And people used to use them where they
bought hay where they cut
bushes and so on for everything.
People more or less all had sheep, horses,
cows and used the roads so
they could feed that one too.
When we finished that one.
When we were already tired, we slowly
walked out of that meadow onto that road
and on that road we met three girls.
They were Ivanka, Mirjana and Vicka.
Vicka.
I knew her well because he went to the
same school who is a year older than her.
And I knew the other two girls myself.
Not so well because they
didn't live in Medjugorje.
Ivanka lived in Mostar.
Mirjana lived in Sarajevo, they only came
to their grandparents over the summer
because everyone was here on summer
vacation to spend time here with them and
not a single friend who was with
me, and ask those two what they do.
They said they were going for a walk,
to look for the sheep's parents.
I didn't ask anything.
I was very, very withdrawn then,
shy now and didn't communicate much.
At that time I just waited on the
sidelines for them to finish my
conversation with them
and for us to move on.
They moved on, up to now 200 Cenacolo.
There were two fences
where the sheep were kept.
That one didn't.
These go where I always say up.
Most of my family goes to the village, and
since my house is from my parents', it's
only a village away towards the field.
One friend, Ivan Ivanković.
And that I was with him.
Come on, come with me so he can get
something to eat and change and we
can come back to your place later.
We watched Cibona and Bosna play that
day and watch basketball together.
The television has one small television,
black and white, and this used to
be the television in the village.
The first one in the village had those
families whose parents
had been in Germany.
They live in Germany, so he could
have brought it from Germany.
I always gathered in one of those five or
six families when there was football or
basketball and we watched
football and basketball.
And that's how it was that evening.
And we went to them.
We watched the first half
of that game at his place.
And I tell you, my friend, come to my
house to grab something to eat quickly
and come back later for the second half.
We quickly crossed the field
and came to the end of the cafe.
And where is Ivano now?
You know, it's practically impossible not
to come home across the
field and come to my house.
I grabbed something to eat quickly
and we're slowly walking this way.
Now we went from my mother's house to my
mother's house for the second half,
but we didn't get there until today.
But this second half
something else happened.
That road we walked was a
very narrow goat's path.
Walking along that road, we don't go back
to the garden under my house,
where I've already been.
And then there were five or six trees
of those green apples and people.
And me and my friends said let's grab
a game and we'll have a little bit.
The T-shirts were white
and they had an entrance.
We took a few apples and went out
on the road again and kept going.
Going on.
We heard a voice from afar,
no one was calling us.
We didn't see anyone on the
road we were on at that time.
Everything was overgrown with bushes and
there was nothing in the
greenery of one house.
Just a fence, a path.
What cows and sheep could have walked.
We heard a voice saying
that we didn't see anyone.
We didn't pay much attention.
And the next day, we heard that
voice getting closer and louder.
At one point we turned
around and saw Vicka.
A girl we had met before after
football was standing in one position.
Now, if the wind blows, the secretary
leaves when you get out on the main road.
She was standing in that very place and
calling the two of us
with her trembling voice.
We turned towards her.
We were quite far from them because we
were at that house of that
monastery here under the Blue Cross.
There was a fence there.
And that's where we stopped because
we heard that voice so close.
And she was running.
At that moment she was standing
and just calling us Ivan Ivan.
Come with me, sir, to the
hill, we saw the Lady.
I didn't know what she
was really talking about.
I was a child of 16.
I had never heard of a Lady.
However, at one point,
she threw her flip-flops.
She was on her feet.
And she started running towards the
two of us and came closer to us.
She was now shaking with fear.
The excitement was at its peak.
In her trembling voice, she
called out, come with me.
Come with me, you'll see, it's the Lady.
It's the Lady.
I knew Vicka before.
She was always a special temperament at
school and we always called
her Bojali at school.
We were all afraid and
called her the sheriff.
True, she was a bit like that.
How she was.
She was fiercer.
Little by little, I was
getting more and more afraid.
When I went to school across the field.
Everyone wanted her to slow down
or speed up when they saw her.
That's how it was, and
she and I said let it go.
What kind of Lady do I say to my friend,
Come on, we're late for the second half?
However, she wasn't that
persistent, she says.
Come on, go in peace, you'll see.
We can see that something
strange is happening to her.
It's not Vicka that I who we who I know
and who my friend knows so much better.
She's even closer, lived next to him.
At one point we decide, Come on, let's go
I on the right side on the left side,
walking slowly with her, already knowing
what kind of temperament she's
been through all that way.
You'll see when you get there.
It wasn't easy for us anymore either.
Just watching her behave and
our fear began to take hold.
We get to that place, it's a little closer
and we already see Ivanka and Mirjana.
facing the hill crying and
just cuddling like this.
And we come closer to them and Vicka turns
towards the hill and points with her hand.
Look up.
I looked three times and I saw the
beautiful figure of Our Lady in normal
size, illuminated by the light of the
star through us that was so expressive.
It wasn't that close, but you could really
see the outline of everything
and it was floating on a cloud.
My look didn't last
more than 10 15 seconds.
As soon as I saw it, I
immediately ran home.
I mean, no one could have gotten there.
When I got home, I didn't know
where my friend had stayed.
I know he stayed, but I didn't
know what happened to him.
I just wanted to be afraid of Zabok.
The shock was a huge shock.
When I got home, I didn't tell anyone,
not even my parents or my brothers.
I locked myself in my room.
I can't describe that night.
The fear of what would happen, and the
questions that arose in me that night.
As a sixteen-year-old child.
Is that possible?
How is that possible?
Was it really Our Lady?
Until I was sixteen, I could never
even dream that it could happen.
I never had any special
devotion to Our Lady herself.
I was a practical believer, I
went to religious education.
Even the priests at that time didn't talk
much about the apparitions
in Lourdes and Fatima.
They had a classic religious education
that was built on other,
more important things.
So, I would say, it was no better
or worse than others in those years.
But that night that was the
one that was ahead of me.
It was a night of fear, a night of
anticipation of what was going to happen.
Were you able to sleep at all?
I remember that.
You once told me that you
were actually so afraid?
You were in some kind of mixture of fear,
emotions, love, everything so quiet
that even the window would darken.
Everyone would come into the room.
What am I going to do, then?
That's exactly what I wanted to say.
I'm saying what I was most afraid of was.
What if the Virgin Mary
comes to my room tonight?
I'll try to escape where she'll escape to
because at that time I was 16 years old.
I was so knowledgeable and shy that I
never walked in the dark
without my dad taking me to.
In the village, when I watch a game or
basketball or he takes me and brings me.
When the game is over,
so I was scared and dark.
Just waiting for morning to
come as soon as possible.
Morning is already coming to them all.
I raise the blinds and I can already see.
Mothers from the village
come to my mother.
I see they're talking downstairs on
the lower plateau under the stairs.
Did Ivan say anything to you?
We heard that he was also
filming with the girls?
Mother, he says no.
And he immediately slowly walks
up the stairs towards my room.
I can already see the
trembling in his voice.
At that time fear begins to speak.
Well, we heard something, open
the door, we need to ask that one.
And I opened the door
to my mother and said.
I saw it, but I'm still not sure
because it was 50, ten, fifteen seconds.
You see everything, but you simply
can't be sure because you're not sure.
And there we are.
We stayed there.
I went down to the lower threshold.
Then to the other mothers
who came from the village.
I told the little one even more how it all
happened, as we have just talked about,
and on that second day, a lot of
people and it started from all sides.
It spread quickly.
Podbrdo Međugorje, Čitluk.
The authorities got on their
feet so that there were.
A lot of Secret Services
monitoring everything.
And we spent that whole day
together with the people.
We watched with them, there
were others, we had no one.
25.
June 25.
June, so sometime in the afternoon.
An ambulance from Čitluk comes and
takes us to the student's clinic.
They pick us up without our
parents and without anything.
I remember well, we came to the clinic
hallway where they are now in
Čitluk, there was a clinic.
And now we meet there.
And so the first.
When Dr. Vujević was in Čitluk and we
entered his office, he was the first,
while I did what I had to do with him.
I had already gone outside.
They had already come to pick them up and
take home all the drugs they had acquired.
I was alone.
I stayed in the bank and I
don't know how to get home.
My mother didn't come, and
no one came to my father.
Only their parents came quickly and
picked me up and brought me home.
And since my son was working for my
mother, sister, uncle, he drove
the ambulance in Čitluk and he.
He came out to meet me and returned home.
By the time I got home, the others and
everyone else were already on the hill.
And I had that meeting at my house.
with parents.
That was the second day.
That was the second day, and then.
Then that second day.
I was sure.
She introduced herself
as the Queen of Peace.
And while I was in the house, when I came
from the clinic, and to them, when they
were up on the hill, so that first day was
actually the second day of
the encounter with Our Lady.
That was it.
It's hard to say it all now.
It's hard to remember all
those moments, but for sure.
I have a lot of things written down from
the first days of the apparitions that I
can certainly talk about and a lot more.
When the first day means introducing
myself as the Queen of
Peace, the Queen, and that.
Essentially.
SE then forms this group of
six into six visionaries.
By the first day there were more
children, but they didn't go later.
This friend of mine who
was with me the other day.
He didn't, because when his sisters were
my five sisters, when they were as many
as there were police in the village.
They locked him in a room,
they didn't give him any ideas.
Milka Marija's sister.
Also, she didn't go either.
She was afraid and the reason.
That's as far as I know.
So the other day Jakov and Marija, Jakov
and Marija had that meeting
together for the first time.
Jakov was ten years old.
Ten, fifteen, sixteen.
Jakov was the youngest at ten years old.
We were all sixteen, except
for Vicka who was seventeen.
It is very interesting that there
was no parish priest at that time.
The parish priest was Fr.
Jozo Zovko.
He was on a trip.
Jozo is Fra Jozo Zovko.
I mean, I didn't know him.
I always say that well.
I was there then.
I was always at a distance with him.
Not really much, I was an altar
boy, but I was always withdrawn.
Our communication or that of the priest
was limited, very, very little, and then
Fra Jozo was in Zagreb
for spiritual exercises.
And by the time I arrived after three or
four days, he had returned to Medjugorje.
And I remember well.
When people were still from
the village to say chaplain.
The chaplain at the time
was Fra Zrinko Čuvalo.
To say.
Then Zrinko said, "Let it go, it's just
children playing." That was his answer.
When Fra Jozo came back and called us.
I remember well the old cistern, and the
old cistern was right when you go to the
church, where the statue is, when you go
in the middle towards the church, you can
park your car, then that statue
and the glass in the glass.
The only thing was that the cistern was an
old cistern and we sat
on the cistern with him.
He asked us about everything, how it all
started, those first days, and all that.
That was our first meeting with him.
He didn't believe you himself.
He says he did from the beginning.
It was hard.
It was like listen.
It was a dream, it was a shock for us.
A surprise, i.
e.
it was a surprise for our parents.
And our parents were at the beginning.
That was it.
It simply wasn't.
It wasn't.
It wasn't simple, it wouldn't
seem that way even today.
We were encountering something like this
for the first time, we
had never had any idea.
I've never read the book of apparitions.
I've never had any idea about all of that.
That's why I say, it was truly
a big, big surprise for me.
What did you talk about then,
how did you communicate, pray?
What was it like with the
gentleman in the beginning?
How did you establish that contact?
Well, I think that was it.
Some of us talked to her more.
Some of us thought less.
Vicka was her, I would say.
The ringleader is the leader.
That Vicka was, as they say,
professional, says Speak.
This.
The spokesperson speaks to us.
She led that communication
more openly than all of us.
We were just listening to her more,
but later over time and over time.
We opened up more and more to
the debate, but they were more.
While the Gospa simply brought us back
through that time, encouraged us to relax
a little because we were in a convulsion.
Once each of our every meeting, entering
that meeting was simply an anticipation
of what would happen today.
What would happen today?
But what was most profound for me in all
of that was the motherly love that she
introduced us to, especially in the first
days, introduced us to all that we have.
It wasn't overnight, but it was.
But it's don't be afraid.
I'm with you.
She lays hands on us.
Don't be afraid, I will guide you.
I will give you messages
and everything else.
I think that was the key thing to
strengthen us, to stabilize us.
We were kids at that time.
It wasn't that, it wasn't just that.
Actually, there were a lot of
people coming in those days.
Apart from this police, that policeman is
one of thousands of
people who surrounded you.
They wanted you to actually ask
on their behalf, Mr. Protect.
I don't think there was.
There were many questions and questions,
for example, one of the many questions was
Ask Our Lady how long will you be coming
like a day and I remember it well.
And Vicka asked that question again.
When Our Lady stopped naked and got bored,
she and we never asked
that question again.
But there was great pressure from the side
and especially when the
hill was closing in.
So we walked, looking
for a place in the field.
One of the many places near here where we
as people met together to pray, and so we
went to the sacristy in the church, then
from the church to another room where the
priests were, then to the bell tower, and
all of those places
were special even today.
Today I stand here and I always remember.
It always comes to me to those places and
everything that Our Lady said at those
meetings and what she conveyed to us that
we convey the world and the hereafter.
But the important thing for me
is always the important message.
The message that Our Lady calls us to and
the time in which she comes to us, I
didn't understand enough at first, what
Our Lady wants with her coming, but year
after year throughout all these years I
realize that the simple message is to
return to Jesus and return to Jesus,
because Our Lady never
speaks about herself.
She always directs us towards Jesus,
towards that source, and she directs
us towards the words of the Gospel.
But she wants to simplify that Gospel word
through her messages so that we understand
it better, so that we can live better, and
so that it becomes a part of our lives.
What are the main messages if you
could summarize them in a few words?
Well, we often times,
and often times people.
I always say, these are the White Stones,
These are the five most important messages
through which Our Lady leads us through
these years, and the central message is
peace, peace in the heart, peace
in families, peace in the world.
Because if there is no peace in a person's
heart, if there is no peace in the family,
there can be no peace in
the world or in society.
Peace always comes from the heart of a
person, and today the heart of a
person is chained by sin and evil.
Therefore, it is not when
it is not able to open.
With that true true peace that
Christ, Our Lady says, leads to peace.
And we only to Jesus.
Peace can be absent.
That is truly true peace,
that is life, that is love.
And today, often when we speak
and think about ourselves.
The world can give peace.
In that, we quickly become disappointed
because we see that it is fleeting.
Only the Christian Jesus is peace.
Jesus is joy, the love of life.
The second message is also important, and
that is conversion to begin to change.
To see ourselves, and to see ourselves, is
best through prayer, through confession,
forsaking sins, and opening ourselves to
God through all of that and seeing, seeing
the mirror of ourselves from within so
that we can receive grace
and the Holy Spirit.
It is always necessary to be clean in
order to heal the spirit in order to heal
physically and spiritually,
it is always necessary.
Confession always needs to be
forgiven, it is always necessary.
That is why Our Lady always repeats so
many times about forgiveness in
confession, monthly confession, but.
The second thing that she also wants to
emphasize in a special
way that a person would.
I would say, The most important
call is prayer of the heart.
Prayer with the heart.
I would say it nourishes our
peace and our hope and our love.
And it strengthens us.
Without peace, a person's body
dies, a person as a spirit dies.
That is why prayer is, and I would
say the heart and soul of our faith.
We must always pray, and that is a
process, a program for our life that we
must decide on every day, decide to be
persistent and be patient and grow in
holiness in good as well, and one call
that is also to which Our
Lady calls us, is penance.
Our Lady says in one of her messages.
Through prayer, fasting, you can
stop natural disasters and wars.
When Our Lady says that, I wouldn't
say that, I don't say that.
Our Lady says If Our Lady
says that, it is possible.
Many think that work comes by mail.
I would say that we cleanse ourselves, we
strengthen our spirit, we strengthen our
faith and we owe the
security of our peace.
Our Lady did not set an ultimatum when she
spoke about fasting that cannot become, it
can replace work, prayer, some other
sacrifice, some other renunciation of
something, giving up something
we love, that is dear to us.
Except that a great gain is not a loss.
I always say, I can compare it to that
grain of wheat from the
Gospel, the Grain of Zenica.
We always have to fall into the ground
first to be lost at the
cash register, to be sold.
So that it would become.
Another thing that Our Lady's call is.
I would say that perhaps one of the
strongest calls is the Eucharist.
The Eucharist is the center of our life.
Suffice it to say that in one of her
apparitions to us as a person, she says,
kneeling kneeling before
her, she says dear children.
Tomorrow when everyone decided to come to
me, he met with me and went to Holy Mass.
Don't come to me, go to Holy Mass.
Mass must be the center of our lives.
Because going to Holy Mass means going to
meet Jesus in which we give
ourselves to Holy Mass.
We have to open ourselves to receive
Him, to meet Him, to befriend Him.
It is an encounter with Jesus.
It is also given in
addition to the Eucharist.
Because I have already said that
it is also the monthly delivery.
The ultimate is everything before
the cross with the Sacrament.
That is why Our Lady especially calls
priests to open their churches more.
Adoration before Jesus.
Renewing the prayer of the Rosary in our
families is also one of the messages to
which Our Lady persistently and patiently
calls us and the Holy Scripture.
To read the Holy Scripture.
Let the Bible be a visible
place for each of your families.
Certainly today.
Many families have their own family.
But if we were to look today at how much
dust there is on it, it is 200 and
beautifully engraved in a closet
or seemingly, it seems, visible.
And how much is it, how much do we use it?
We must return to the true word of the
gospel, start living in families, and
whenever it is said about reading the Holy
Scriptures, he says read short passages
from the Holy Scriptures and pause on
them, meditate for a little
longer and you will see.
He says that my son speaks so
much and he speaks to you too.
These words are for you.
Look at them meditating and
what Our Lady wants to tell me.
I would say that it should be a
supplementary spiritual
food on your life path.
and it is very important that
we understand and begin to live.
We will go into the Gospel, we will go
deep into the mystery of what
God still wants to give us.
How do you view the criticisms of those
who criticize only the apparitions,
and especially Our Lady's messages?
These are simple, banal
messages that are repeated.
Well, nobody.
He doesn't say.
That I experience it.
Every moment.
Everyone has their own approach
to how they will see it.
Our Lady speaks, she simply
does not speak theologically.
No matter how far the message is through
me and the monthly messages, I am never.
People in that message cultivate theology
and philosophy, because Our Lady leans
towards us and wants to lean towards us so
that we understand that message better
and live it better, and we always hear.
Those people who talk like that.
I always say, I can only do it, I am
only an instrument in God's hands.
I will do what the Lord asks, and you
comment in your own way as
you want and want us to.
I cannot.
No, I do not get too involved in those
arguments, how others comment
after who we are speaks.
She stays with us.
My son allows me to stay with you for so
long that I want to lead
you to raise you, he says.
I always say, she comes to us as the best
mother, teacher and educator
for us to learn for us to raise.
She comes in a difficult time for
children and does not give up on us.
She stays with us today to help us.
And always.
It will always exist.
They say there are too many apparitions
every day and too many messages.
In fact, the criticism of the Medjugorje
phenomenon is that what was less in Fatima
is simply less when compared to others.
It's difficult in my
position, and I don't.
I wouldn't want to get into those
comments and advocate for that now.
I'll just follow what the gentleman
doesn't want, and everything
else is different in the church.
I'm ready at any moment to be in the
service of Our Lady and that's it.
We tried to dispute what we are
now mentioning and criticizing.
However, they also tried to discredit you
from the beginning, declaring
you mentally unsound, etc.
In addition to psychiatric care, you also
underwent various medical
examinations later.
How did you deal with that
and how did it go for you?
Well, I am.
How does that look to me as
a bridge to conversation?
Now you have some assessment.
I'm not like this.
Psychologist, not Psychologist,
psychiatrist, but you're really the same.
Good.
We passed that on time.
It was sometimes difficult,
and many tests to pass.
Knowing that I was healthy,
that you were that.
But various commissions, Real, Argentina,
Milan, Vienna and all that, but maybe we
couldn't have endured it
if Our Lady hadn't told us.
Do it, it will be good.
It will be good for the Church.
It will be good for this.
And we went according to the directive
and according to that and did everything.
More or less everything they asked for.
What was asked of us.
Have you ever thought
that you probably did?
Why me?
Why didn't it happen?
Here, here I am now standing with you,
sitting here with you, wondering
why me, mother, why me?
Wasn't it better than me, mother?
Will I be able to do everything
you ask of me, exactly as you ask?
Did you ask Mrs. She, but she is?
And she is, she said.
The day I was alone, I was alone, but I
spent a lot of time deciding
whether to ask her or ask something.
One day I was with her.
We were having a casual conversation, and
I said, and now I see a chance
to ask her, she's going.
And I asked my mother why me?
Why did you choose me?
And she smiled so sweetly?
Oh, dear child, you know, I
don't always ask for the best.
And after that I never
asked anything again.
And here they are, mother.
And among the criticisms of people who
can't hear all those today why
didn't you become priests and men?
Why didn't the girls become nuns?
Why didn't you?
Even start with that one?
Well, it is known that
they were 81 years old.
I already left Medjugorje on 28.
8.
I went to the seminary and I
don't want to say too much now.
There was a lot of inconvenience,
a lot of non-acceptance.
I was a child then.
Maybe maybe my wish was yes, but there
were a lot of obstacles on that path.
I finished that first year thinking that I
would be in a different place, a little
better, that I would be better accepted.
In that one position of mine that I am in.
Then Fr.
Slavko, the late Fr.
Slavko, I moved to Dubrovnik to the
Jesuits and there I finished that second
year again and after that I was alone.
Not with everything, but all
with Our Lady's guidance.
Let's be clear, I always asked for
advice, and it was very difficult.
It was very difficult at times
because I was a child then so much.
Many things fell hard, keeping
track of everything I went to.
When I prayed in the chapel, in the
seminary chapel from the hinterland.
Always good.
It's not really for the story, but it was
harder for me because it
was very difficult for me.
And after that, after Dubrovnik in the
year eighty-two, in the third year.
I retired home in the sixth month.
And that one.
Yes.
People often ask why the visionaries are
not, and no one went to the
vocation of venerable priests.
I think that God gave each of us freedom
and did not take away freedom from anyone.
Being a priest is a sacred
thing of the sacraments.
Being a family is a sacred
Here I am, all six of us, we have chosen
that path and through that path we want.
We want to bear witness.
The apostolate of the family.
Perhaps even more demanding today
than being dedicated to God.
To say it again, everything has its own.
Of course, everything has its own, but I
say it again through the family, we
can also do a lot in this in my place.
My position that I am and do.
All these years since leaving the seminary
with young people with families I have
been witnessing to others, so that this
evangelization in this way
that I am doing now is certain.
I want to be good at sowing seeds.
I na kraju krajeva sigurno i velike
plodove za ljude koji ne
znaju dovoljno dobro od vas.
6.
Di Maria i Vicka imate svakodnevna
ukazanja dok se ostali ne
odigraju nekoliko puta godišnje.
Da sada ne idemo za svakoga, Dakle, ali
oni su dobili 10 tajni nakon 10
tajne za svakodnevna ukazanja.
A malo o tajnama tajne su tajne.
Jasno, ne možemo otkrivati tajne, ali
koliko se može reći o
tajnama tih imaš devet, onda.
So we have nine.
Our Lady entrusted nine secrets, and the
other three visionaries Ivanka
and Mirjana each have ten secrets.
The secret is related to the church.
To the world, to this place, to the sign.
There is a visible sign
that will be set up.
Because, he says, there are
not 60 different secrets.
Some older common ones that are to be
revealed when the time comes, we cannot
speak until the time comes, and what I can
say is that, and we must pray for some
secrets that are not good for the world,
for humanity, as the seventh secret
was mitigated by our prayers.
So are other secrets that are not good.
Prayer is needed to avoid
them, but to mitigate them.
Another important thing.
In all of this, the six of us each have
some kind of mission received
from you, yours specifically.
My mission is to pray for young
people and families and priests.
That is my mission on which Our Lady
called me to pray for that intention.
And plus that I and the prayer
group that I have led for 44 years.
The group was founded in 4.
780, and in the second year,
and that group still exists.
We meet with the deceased here in the
chapel or on the hill, and plus that says
My mission is precisely to pray for young
families and vocations of the Church.
I would like to ask you to explain to our
viewers what the apparitions
look like when you have them?
They are always at about the same time.
I have even been to this chapel.
I have had the opportunity thanks
to the good will of other people.
I can also come and work there.
However, the selection cannot be massive.
However, how, how, how does the
moment of the apparition come about?
Are you teaching us that to a few people?
Here it is.
My whole life, through these forty, almost
five years, is woven into that encounter.
Last night the apparitions.
Waiting for today later, my whole
day is present for that moment.
I prepare all day 24 hours.
From last night until today and here
it is today, expecting the encounter.
Around 6 o'clock the rosary begins.
I join the people who
will be with them tonight.
I pray the rosary and prepare for that
encounter, praying the rosary
together with the people.
Thinking, are they meditating, as we get
closer and closer to the
time of twenty-seven?
I feel more and more
close to her in my heart.
Sometimes Our Lady comes before I kneel.
Here she looks, she is with us, she looks
at the people, they pray the
rosary and pray the Hail Mary.
And the And if not when
she is already here.
She invites me to kneel.
Or when I come here she starts
praying when she stops praying.
That is the moment when she comes.
Those are two things, she is already here.
She calls me and I come, I come praying.
And that is the moment
when the person comes.
But I always feel her
closeness in my heart.
That moment, that moment.
Is alone before the arrival.
That's right.
And that's the moment.
I already stop.
Sometimes the rosary doesn't end.
I know I have to be there, that's me.
That's the moment when she comes and I
feel the light that comes before her.
That's always her arrival
at the place of arrival.
The world around you is shutting down.
Another detail I noticed that
I've never mentioned before.
I was very close to you.
You didn't have an apparition.
The fly was walking on your face.
So, if it were walking on you or me now,
it would have certainly been chased away.
However, you didn't react at all.
I stood there the whole time
the apparition was happening.
It was waiting for you.
It is a time of ecstasy.
How, how, what is it called
professionally, at that time when Our Lady
comes, I feel both time and space, I
see nothing in front of me or around me.
That time is simple.
With her.
You see yourself with her,
you see today that day.
I always tell the people who are
present here after the apparition.
When Our Lady comes, a
part of heaven comes.
Behind her you see this and that and
in the distance you see that paradise.
The beauty of that encounter
with her, that light of paradise.
It is indescribable.
It is difficult to describe it in words.
No matter how hard I have tried to
describe it all these
years, it is inexplicable.
Yes, that's interesting.
Even if I'm not mistaken, it's a
joke that someone even made once.
When that was, it was in the sacristy.
On the right side, on the
right side of the altar.
We had that apparition then and
that was that moment when they.
They thought that there was a member of
the Commission on Zadar
from Split that was before.
And he was behind us during the press, he
was dressed in white, he was in white and
during the apparition he
tried to do it with needles.
I remember it very well.
Nothing.
No.
Nothing has changed.
It's Vicka.
They just said Vicka, why do
you have blood on your back?
On that white stripe, which she had.
Another thing is how it is to have.
You have a wife and children, you
sent recently, even a grandfather.
So, the years go by and your life changes,
just like everyone else's and mine.
People who look at us like they do.
What is it like to live for them?
I saw what life is like.
Actually, here, maybe you could describe
to us a little bit how you live every day.
You basically said that you wait for
an apparition from one to the next.
However, what does life look like, the
daily life of a seer, and how
do you live with each one?
Since I live in America, I spend part of
the time there and part of the time here.
Your wife is American.
We met here.
In 89, as a pilgrim, she came here with
two of her relatives, where after
Medjugorje, and both of her relatives
were sent by Franciscan priests.
and she became a rector in the church.
So we met in 89 and got married in 84.
We have four beautiful children,
two girls and two sons.
The older daughter Christina got
married two years ago, three years ago.
We now have a little baby.
Not that there is one now.
As we have already said,
Mikela is 25 years old.
Daniel 25.
Michaela 26.
And 25.
And the youngest son
Mathieu is 18 years old.
Listen.
Many ask how I can implement everything
and how I can pass it
all on to the family.
Everything is this gift that God gave.
We are one and we want to be one.
We are one compact.
We have great support as
the first great support.
I have from my family.
Everything I do outside in Medjugorje.
When I am not at home with them, I have
great support and when I am with
them, we are always in prayer.
We are always together with each other.
We support each other, we grow.
There were challenging moments, especially
when the children started school.
Knowing that at school they were all
Catholic, so at school you
knew that I was the dad.
Theirs is that I am in between, I speak.
It was a little and a little
from the sides, but they are.
I always told them, you have to be
witnesses, you have to have faith and
you don't have to be afraid of anything.
And the rest of them and their dignity and
their firmness remained on the
mark and I am proud of that.
And my wife, too.
When she says, I am not here.
She replaces all that and we
really live and try to live.
We try to live Our Lady's messages
through every day through prayer.
Through through meetings through when
we are at home in the family together.
And that is a great gift
and a great gift for me.
When I mentioned America, it is very
important to say that you don't have an
apparition in America this afternoon
when you are in Medjugorje.
The same.
So, the apparitions are not related to
Medjugorje and the place
itself, but they happen.
They are apparitions there
from 8pm to 7am American time.
And in Istanbul the
rosary also starts at 6am.
When you mentioned time, I
used to hear some criticism.
They say that the apparitions are, they
say, visionaries order Our Lady
when she will come to them on order.
It's good, it's an old tactic.
Those who write and there are no orders.
You never did.
Ordered.
I don't have any orders from me
because I just listen to Our Lady.
I just listen to Our Lady and that's what
they are the only ones with her all
their lives for these 45 years together.
Here Ivan, let's go slowly.
Towards the end of the conversation.
Somehow, could we use these 45 years as an
opportunity for the time to come, what
would your message be from the position of
Medjugorje and the Medjugorje phenomenon
and you personally, but also what it
conveys to the world, what message would
the message of Medjugorje be for the world
and for people, for
individuals, now just the globe.
And I think this is so that the message
would be a message of gratitude for all
that God has given us and is giving us.
Throughout all these
years we must be grateful.
We must be open, we must receive and begin
to live these gifts that God gives us.
What I would especially like to emphasize
are two key things for me that are
repeated non-stop, so to speak, so
often, and that is peace and prayer.
All the other messages are
important, but peace is prayer.
We must pray more, we must more.
Today we live in a modern world, a world
of modern technologies, a world, new
civilizations and the
challenges are great.
Social Media.
So much today.
I would say that it affects the family and
young people, it puts
pressure on families.
And Our Lady.
I often say what Our Lady says that today
Social Media is a new cancer that has
metastasized today among young families.
And a spiritual dimension today,
and families and society in general.
And we must.
I especially want to appeal to the family
that we need to return to tradition, not
modernism, because tradition will take us
back to the old days where our
grandparents taught us
about our true roots.
Yes, yes, let us be a living tree and let
us water that tree with prayer, good
things and here's what else I could say.
We must live what Our Lady calls us to.
This is not some wisdom of philosophy and
theology and we must live the messages
that are in the call, and not go over them
and pass over them and wait
for what will happen tomorrow.
We must start living the same growth.
People today are especially looking
for comfort and are ultimately afraid.
It is a time of great wars and great
unrest in the world, how can
it not be the end of it now?
We talk to Our Lady about it, or rather,
what is Heaven's view of this situation?
Should people live in fear
and how does it come about?
Our Lady comes to us
as the Mother of Hope.
She wants hope that she will bring us to
these days a tired world
that has lost hope.
But today we live in an environment in the
world where wars are so present and more
pronounced that people suffer
so much, suffer where they are.
Where is this BiH said.
A struggle between good and evil between
God and Satan and we must
stand on the right side.
We must stand on the side that Our Lady
calls us to stand on the
head of the dragon Satan.
As Our Lady said in Fatima, she says I
want to finish what I
started in Fatima here.
Let us join, let us join that message and
yes, that we truly all together with her
realize her plan that she comes with.
That is important.
Thank you, what can I say?
Thank you for finding time for our viewers
and for me personally, of course, and for
everything you've done over
the past forty-five years.
Thank you for your perseverance
and unwavering courage.
I know there are problems and setbacks,
but you hold on somehow, listen.
I always say one thing.
I always say.
I would like everyone to see Our Lady
because it would be much easier for me.
I wouldn't be here with you today.
But we must always remember
the words of the Gospel.
Blessed are those who do
not see and yet believe.
After all, that's what Our Lady herself
said when other people in those very first
days that we've just returned to
said they too would like to see.
Ask Our Lady, why don't we see Our Lady
and that's exactly what
the Gospel message says.
Here we end it with that.
Thank you again.
AND.
To you.
Dear viewers, thank you
and see you at some point.